By picking up (or downloading) this book you've decided it's time to get a real operating system with real grunt, real power and real useability but need a little help getting yourself in-tune with a whole new way of doing things. And let me be the first to congratulate you. It's an excellent choice.

I wasn't a Mac user before 2006. In fact I was a hard-core die-hard fan of Windows and would grunt at anyone using any variation of Linux or mentioned UNIX. And Mac?! Mac OS couldn't have been farther from useless in my mind. There were no apps, it was too hard, it was 'weird' and there was no Start Menu for me to run my applications from. And why didn't the Mac have an eject button for the disk drive? It was all too confusing. Well, one day I decided that Mac OS had improved enough (the last time I looked at a Mac closely it was Mac OS 9 and 

Mountain Lion, also known as OS X 10.8 (current version is 10.8.3 at time of writing), is the ninth major version of OS X, Apple's desktop and server operating system. As it's name suggests, Mountain Lion was set to be a refinement of the previos verion of OS X, Lion, and developed to significantly enable users to more easily synchonise their information between their Apple device/s and the operating system.

The brightest feature that has been introduced is Gatekeeper, which is the Apple malware-blocking system. Much like Microsoft's User Access Control feature; Gatekeeper has been built with the user's safety in mind. By default it only allows application that have been signed and checked by Apple to be installed. This also prevents users from inadvertantly installing software that might have harmful effects on their data and/or system or worse, to others! Other great features to be introduced are Game Center and iCloud services. The safari web browser received an overhaul moving to version 6. Notes and Reminders have also been made into their own applications too, so they are no longer integrated into the Mail and Calendar app. I personally find this a great 

Apple has also brought integration of the social media with the two big contenders Facebook and Twitter



The operating system gained the new malware-blocking system Gatekeeper and integration with Apple's online Game Center and iCloud services, while the Safari web browser was updated to version 6. As on iOS, Notes and Reminders became full applications, separate from Mail and Calendar, while the OS X iChat application was replaced with a version of iOS's Messages. Mountain Lion also added a version of iOS's Notification Center, which groups updates from different applications in one place. Integrated links allowing the user to rapidly transfer content to Twitter were added to the operating system from launch. Facebook integration was also planned but unfinished at launch date,[3] and released as a downloadable update later.

OS X Mountain Lion brings a lot of great things from iPhone, iPad and iPod touch to the Mac. You can send iMessages. Get your Mac in on Game Center. Receive notifications. And more. And with iCloud, now your Mac works even better with your iOS devices
